Entity Analytics: Requirements and limitations (#4162)
elastic/security-docs: docs/getting-started/ea-req.asciidoc

[[ea-requirements]]
= Entity Analytics prerequisites

> 

Reviewer: > @SourinPaul are we now calling the risk scoring feature "Entity Analytics" in the docs? Also, should this page be included under the Useful links section within the Entity Risk Score page? Linking to multiple doc pages in the UI is a little excessive imo, but I definitely think feature requirements are necessary to highlight.

@nastasha-solomon the current UI reference to the feature is incorrect. Here is the bug logged to correct the UI reference #7920. In its correct form, the UI reference will take the user to the (new) `Entity Risk Scoring` feature documentation page.

I agree that linking to multiple doc pages (Feature overview, Prerequisites for the feature) in the UI may be excessive, given we expect to improve or evolve the feature quickly. 

How about ensuring the `Entity Risk Scoring Prerequisites` section is highlighted on the page the user first lands ( section above)?

> 

Reviewer 2: Thanks for sharing that issue, @SourinPaul. Good to know that the links are being updated for 8.11! :)

As for linking this page, I do think it should be placed at the top of the list. I'd use the page title as well, so the linked text is consistent with our docs. 

Lastly, it might be a good idea to reference this page wherever these privileges are needed to view risk score data within the Security app. For example, if these privileges are required to turn on and or view risk score in the Entity Analytics dashboard, I would mention it there. I'm not sure what that'd look like, or if there's even time to add it into 8.11, so just something to consider for a future release.

[discrete]
== Privileges

> To enable the risk scoring engine, you need the following privileges:

Reviewer: @nastasha-solomon, yes, we can refer to this as the engine. Our 8.11 documentation will provide an overview of `Entity Risk Scoring` and its engine. For most users, `the engine `will abstract the technical complexities and simplify the concept. 

The documentation section that captures the scoring algorithm may detail the low-level architecture (post 8.11).

As you noted, with 8.11, we are moving away from a discreet host/user risk score feature into an entity risk scoring capability.

> Cluster privileges:

Reviewer: +1 on a tabular representation of this content for easier comprehension.

* `manage_index_templates`
* `manage_transform`

Index privileges:

`all` privilege for `risk-score.risk-score-*`

{kib} privileges:

* **All** for the **Saved Objects Management** feature under **Management**
* **Read** for the **Security** feature 

[discrete]
== {es} resource guidelines

Follow these guidelines to ensure clusters have adequate memory to handle data volume:

> * With 2GB of Java Virtual Machine (JVM) heap memory, the risk scoring task can safely process around 44 million documents (30 days of risk data with an ingest rate of 1000 documents per minute).

Reviewer 2: @SourinPaul similar question to what I asked above: is it ok to highlight some of these underlying components (risk score task), or should we stick with the more general/all-encompassing term of "risk score feature"?

@natasha-moore-elastic I wasn't sure if the information in the parentheses is an example of what 44 million docs looks like IRL, so feel free to reject my suggestion if it's wrong. Also, wow, being able to performantly process 44 million docs is bonkers -- in a good way ofc!

```suggestion
* With 2GB of Java Virtual Machine (JVM) heap memory, the risk scoring task can safely process around 44 million documents, or 30 days of risk data with an ingest rate of 1000 documents per minute.
```

Reviewer: @nastasha-solomon let's replace the reference of the task with a more generic; maybe `risk scoring engine` (engine for consistency). Thoughts?

44M 🔥

> * With 1GB of JVM heap, the risk scoring task can safely process around 20 million documents (30 days of risk data with an ingest rate of around 450 documents per minute).

Reviewer 2: Same as above. Feel free to reject this if it's not what you meant, @natasha-moore-elastic. 

```suggestion
* With 1GB of JVM heap, the risk scoring task can safely process around 20 million documents, or 30 days of risk data with an ingest rate of around 450 documents per minute.
```

[discrete]
== Known limitations

* You can only enable the risk scoring engine in a single {kib} space within a cluster.

> * The risk scoring engine uses the internal {kib} user to score all hosts and users. This means the scoring task does not respect custom user or role permissions. All alerts from the configured {kib} space will contribute to the entity's risk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The risk scoring engine uses the internal {kib} user to score all hosts and users, and doesn't respect privileges applied to custom users or roles. All alerts from the configured {kib} space will contribute to host and user risk scores.
```

Reviewer 2: One more quick note - I'm not sure if we need to explain what the "configured Kibana space" is, or if it's evident that we're talking about the Kibana space that has the risk score engine enabled. If we do, here's an potential revision:

```suggestion
* The risk scoring engine uses the internal {kib} user to score all hosts and users, and doesn't respect privileges applied to custom users or roles. After you turn on the risk scoring engine for a {kib} space, all alerts in the space will contribute to host and user risk scores.
```

Reviewer: @nastasha-solomon I like your elaboration on the contribution of alerts from the Kibana space. Thanks.
